<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!-- @format -->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="basic-usage" xml:lang="en">
    <title>Basic usage</title>
    <body outputclass="language-markup">
        <p>
          You need to include the <codeph>prism.css</codeph> and <codeph>prism.js</codeph><ph
          xml:lang="de">authoring</ph> files you downloaded in your page. Example:
        </p>
        <codeblock>&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
&lt;head&gt;
	...
	&lt;link href="themes/prism.css" rel="stylesheet" /&gt;
	&gt;&lt;/head&gt;
&lt;body&gt;
	...
	&lt;script src="prism.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
	&lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;</codeblock>
        <p>
          Prism does its best to encourage good  practices. Therefore, it only works with <b>&lt;code&gt;</b>
          elements, since marking up code without a <i>&lt;code&gt;</i> element is
          semantically invalid. <xref format="html" scope="external"
          href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html52/textlevel-semantics.html#the-code-element">According
          to the HTML5 spec</xref>, the recommended way to define a code language is a <codeph>language-xxxx</codeph>
          class, which is what Prism uses. Alternatively, Prism also supports a shorter version: <codeph>lang-xxxx</codeph>.
        </p>
        <p>
          To make things easier however, Prism assumes that this language definition is
          inherited. Therefore, if multiple <codeph>&lt;code&gt;</codeph> elements have
          the same language, you can add the <codeph>language-xxxx</codeph> class on one
          of their common ancestors. This way, you can also define a document-wide
          default language, by adding a <codeph>language-xxxx</codeph> class on the <codeph>&lt;body&gt;</codeph>
          or <codeph>&lt;html&gt;</codeph> element.
        </p>
        <p>
          If you want to opt-out of highlighting for a <codeph>&lt;code&gt;</codeph>
          element that is a descendant of an element with a declared code language, you
          can add the class <codeph>language-none</codeph> to it (or any non-existing
          language, really).
        </p>
        <p>
          The <xref format="html" scope="external"
          href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html5/grouping-content.html#the-pre-element">recommended
          way to mark up a code block</xref> (both for semantics and for Prism) is a <codeph>&lt;pre&gt;</codeph>
          element with a <codeph>&lt;code&gt;</codeph> element inside, like so:
        </p>
        <codeblock>&lt;pre&gt;&lt;code class="language-css"&gt;p { color: red }&lt;/code&gt;&lt;/pre&gt;</codeblock>
        <p>
          If you use that pattern, the <codeph>&lt;pre&gt;</codeph> will automatically get
          the <codeph>language-xxxx</codeph> class (if it doesn’t already have it) and
          will be styled as a code block.
        </p>
        <p>
          If you want to prevent any elements from being automatically highlighted, you
          can use the attribute <codeph>data-manual</codeph> on the <codeph>&lt;script&gt;</codeph>
          element you used for prism and use the <xref format="html" scope="external"
          href="https://prismjs.com/extending.html#api">API</xref>. Example:
        </p>
        <codeblock>&lt;script src="prism.js" data-manual&gt;&lt;/script&gt;</codeblock>
        <section id="usage-with-webpack">
            <title>Usage with Webpack, Browserify, &amp; Other Bundlers</title>
            <p>
              If you want to use Prism with a bundler, install Prism with <codeph>npm</codeph>:
            </p>
            <codeblock>$ npm install prismjs</codeblock>
            <p>
              You can then <codeph outputclass="language-js">import</codeph> into your bundle:
            </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-js">import Prism from 'prismjs';</codeblock>
            <p>
              To make it easy to configure your Prism instance with only the languages and
              plugins you need, use the babel plugin, <xref format="html" scope="external"
              href="https://github.com/mAAdhaTTah/babel-plugin-prismjs">babel-plugin-prismjs</xref>.
              This will allow you to load the minimum number of languages and plugins to
              satisfy your needs. See that plugin's documentation for configuration details.
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="usage-with-node">
            <title>Usage with Node</title>
            <p>
              If you want to use Prism on the server or through the command line, Prism can be
              used with Node.js as well. This might be useful if you're trying to generate
              static HTML pages with highlighted code for environments that don't support
              browser-side JS, like <xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://www.ampproject.org/">AMP pages</xref>.
            </p>
            <p>
              Example:
            </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-js">var Prism = require('prismjs');

// The code snippet you want to highlight, as a string
var code = "var data = 1;";

// Returns a highlighted HTML string
var html = Prism.highlight(code, Prism.languages.javascript, 'javascript');</codeblock>
            <p>
              Requiring <codeph>prismjs</codeph> will load the default languages: <codeph>markup</codeph>,
              <codeph>css</codeph>, <codeph>clike</codeph> and <codeph>javascript</codeph>.
              You can load more languages with the <codeph outputclass="language-javascript">loadLanguages()</codeph>
              utility, which will automatically handle any required dependencies.
            </p>
            <p>
              Example:
            </p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-js">var Prism = require('prismjs');
var loadLanguages = require('prismjs/components/');
loadLanguages(['haml']);

// The code snippet you want to highlight, as a string
var code = "= ['hi', 'there', 'reader!'].join \" \"";

// Returns a highlighted HTML string
var html = Prism.highlight(code, Prism.languages.haml, 'haml');</codeblock>
            <p>
              <b>Note</b>: Do <i>not</i> use <codeph outputclass="language-javascript">loadLanguages()</codeph>
              with Webpack or another bundler, as this will cause Webpack to include all
              languages and plugins. Use the babel plugin described above.
            </p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>